Hi! Welcome to the show. It's '70s Week.
I've had my hair done specially
in a '70s style.
Now it is '70s Week,
but it's a very serious,
sophisticated show,
so we won't be doing those clichés
like disco balls,
apart from Paul Hollywood's.
And we certainly
won't be doing lava lamps.
As I said, this is a serious affair.
Yee-haw, baby!
This is the best!
[panting]
Welcome to The Great British Baking Show.
[in American accent] Ride the pony, baby.
-Ride the pony!
-[Noel] That does look quite fun.
-Give us a go.
-[both laughing]
-[Alison] This time…
-Ooh!
…we're going back to the '70s…
You want to do some '70s moves? [chuckles]
-No.
-[both laughing]
-…with a towering signature…
-Ow, ow, ow, ow, ow.
…a retro technical…
[laughs] Oh, my God. This is ridiculous!
…and showstopping vintage gateaux.
Who will revel in the past?
Took me back to the '70s, that did.
And whose future…
[snickers] I have to laugh
'cause I'll cry.
…is hanging in the balance?
[chuckles] I'm so stressed. [exclaims]
[opening theme music playing]
[cheery classical music playing]
Let's go, '70s!
-Let's have a fun week, guys.
-Yeah.
Quarterfinal. I didn't think
I'd make it this far.
But I feel like now if I go home,
at least I can be like,
"Quarterfinalist!"
[laughing] Or whatever.
We started with 12.
We're five and I'm still here
and it feels like a massive privilege,
but also, it's like,
"Okay, I've done something right."
I feel weird today 'cause I'm like,
"Am I nervous about baking
or am I nervous about how far we are?"
I think that is absolutely insane
that I am here in the quarterfinal
of The Great British Bake Off.
And now I'm like,
"Right, babes, get to the final." [laughs]
Think I'm the only baker left
that was alive in the '70s.
But unless we're doing
pineapple and cheese on sticks
or jelly and ice cream,
I don't think it's gonna do me
a lot of good. [laughs]
[bright classical music playing]
Welcome back to the tent, bakers,
for 1970s Week.
Pretty much every week's
1970s Week for me.
-I love the '70s.
-Really?
Yeah, it's incredible.
The Sex Pistols, polyester,
James Hunt, Bruce Lee, power cuts.
-They weren't so good, were they?
-No.
So, for this week's signature bake,
the judges would like you to bake
that 1970s classic, profiteroles.
[Noel] Now the judges are looking
for a decorative stack
of at least 30 profiteroles.
You can use any style of filling you like
but when it comes to the flavours,
think 1970s.
So prawn cocktail, coal.
[chuckles]
You've got two hours and 30 minutes.
On your marks.
-Get set.
-Bake!
[cheery classical music playing]
[Georgie] Right, here we go now.
[sighing] Oh, God.
I know nothing much about the '70s.
I was 20 years off, so. [laughs]
You don't remember the '70s, do you?
You're too young.
I wasn't there, hon.
-When was you born?
-2004.
-No!
-[Dylan] Yeah.
-Oh, my God, everyone's so young in here.
-[chuckles]
Food in the '70s gets a bad rap today.
So, our idea is that we should revive
some of those classic '70s bakes
and see what the bakers make of it.
And so, our signature challenge
is profiteroles, which were very '70s.
I do like a profiterole.
I don't like stacking 'em with
hot caramel, but I like a profiterole.
The key thing about this challenge
is getting the choux right.
It's about that dropping consistency.
Too much egg and it won't rise
as much as it should.
They'll be like bellinis.
No pressure. It'll be fine, it'll be fine.
A good-size profiterole
is almost slightly larger than a…
I suppose, a walnut.
If they have too big a profiterole
and fill it full of cream, which is soft,
it will soften the profiterole.
If you're doing a stack,
chances are it will collapse.
[birds chirping]
-Christiaan, good morning.
-Good morning. How are you?
Christiaan, tell us
about your profiterole.
I'm gonna do a Black Forest gateau.
So we've got a chocolate choux pastry,
and for the filling,
we got a kirsch and cherry jam
and a kirsch and chocolate namelaka
which is in between
a ganache and a mousse basically.
[Noel] Christiaan's towering croquembouche
will be decorated with fresh cherries
and kirsch Chantilly cream.
I love that.
I'm a big fan of Black Forest gateau.
It's getting the blend
of flavours together.
Otherwise you're too heavy.
That's another thing
because there is a lot of chocolate.
That looks like what my dog left
in the garden.
You're not allowed to look at it yet.
It's going in the oven.
-That's '70s.
-That's very '70s.
All over our playground,
that's what you'd see.
[laughs]
[Christiaan] Gross.
[Alison] Christiaan might be inspired
by seminal '70s flavours,
but Dylan's channelling
the decade's most famous film.
Whenever I think of the '70s,
I think of Star Wars.
It's wick-- It's like my favourite.
My dad indoctrinated me into it,
but I don't complain
because it's just amazing.
[Noel] Dylan's hoping
the Force will be with him today
as he will be attempting to build
a droid-inspired profiterole stack
supported with
precision engineered nougatine
and filled with banana crème pâtissière
and salted caramel.
-Last week, handshake.
-Yeah.
-Won the technical.
-Star Baker.
-Yeah.
You could take over from Paul.
As what?
Like, you know in Showgirls,
where she kicks that one down the stairs.
That's what we could do to Paul
with the stairs over there.
As he comes across
with his thumbs in his belt holes.
He always does that.
-[Noel] He can't get 'em out.
-[Dylan] He does that.
[strains] That's 'cause
he's always ready for a barn dance.
[both laughing]
-[Paul] Georgie.
-[Prue] Hello, Georgie.
How are you?
Georgie, tell us about your profiterole.
So mine's gonna be
in a croquembouche shape,
and it's based on my favourite band,
Queen and Freddie Mercury.
[Noel] A white chocolate Freddie Mercury
will stand atop
Georgie's tower of profiteroles
which she will fill
with white chocolate and coconut
and dark chocolate and salted caramel.
When you practised this,
how tall did it end up?
My stand is about there,
so it's about this.
-Okay. A decent size then.
-Yeah. Yeah.
[Noel] Before any of the bakers can stack,
they must first get their choux pastry
to the perfect piping consistency.
Now then,
slowly and steadily with the egg.
[Alison] Which means having to rely
on their baking experience
to gauge just how much egg to add.
You wanna add them really gradually
and just see when you have enough.
[Alison] Add too much and the choux
will collapse under its own weight.
So I picked it up
and it creates a nice "V".
It's nice and shiny, so it's perfect.
Yeah, that's okay to me.
[Christiaan] I feel, at the moment,
it might actually benefit
from slightly more eggs.
Illiyin, tell us about your profiteroles.
What are you doing?
[Illiyin] I am doing two flavours.
So I have a white chocolate diplomat
with raspberry jam,
and then a brown butter caramel
with hazelnut and amaretto diplomat.
-It sounds great.
-Is there a theme to this?
So this is an ode to the Afro.
-All in very bright '70s colours.
-Oh, I love it. This is great.
It was a time when you could be
authentically, sort of,
in your natural hair as a Black woman
and I think I want to celebrate that.
[Noel] Illiyin will decorate
her colourful croquembouche
with micro-sponge Afros,
edible flowers
and isomalt Afro silhouettes.
While you're here chilling out,
d'you wanna…
You want to do some '70s moves? [chuckles]
-No.
-[both laughing]
I'm never that chilled.
[Alison] Before their profiteroles
can be baked,
they must first be piped
into the perfect portions.
[Dylan] I'm making loads,
so then I can pick the best ones.
So I'm just popping down the peaks.
Just keeps their shape a bit more.
[Christiaan] We've got a chocolate
choux pastry topped with a craquelin.
It's a really thin biscuit.
They put it over the top and it kind of
melts over the whole choux pastry
and it just gives it a lovely crunch.
Right. [sighs]
So these are going in now.
I wanna set a timer.
[Illiyin] They bake for 30 minutes.
So at 25 minutes,
I'll open them, poke them,
erm, and then leave them
for another five minutes.
[Paul] Morning, Gill.
-[Alison] Gill.
-Hello!
Tell us all about your profiteroles.
What are you doing?
So my most treasured possession
in the world is a 1970s Christmas tree
that my parents bought
the first year they were married in 1970,
and I still have it.
-Good condition?
-Slightly wonky now,
but I'm modelling this on it
so I've got an excuse if it goes wrong.
[Alison] Filled with a chocolate
and hazelnut crème pâtissière
and coated with red and green craquelin
Gill's choux will be
stacked and secured with caramel
in tribute to her beloved Christmas tree.
-The '70s was bonkers, weren't it?
-It was.
The clothes were bonkers,
the colours were bonkers.
TV shows were bonkers.
-Kids' TV shows even more bonkers.
-More bonkers.
But good music. We were lucky, weren't we?
We had it all.
-We had Slade.
-We had vinyl.
[Noel laughs]
We had to go buy vinyls,
then put them on with a needle.
And be careful.
-Only when allowed.
-If you showed that to children now,
they'd go,
"Why would you bother with that?"
-What's all this about?
-What are you, Victorian?
-All right, good luck.
-Oh, thank you. [laughs]
[birds chirping]
It's a little Paul Hollywood.
Just about to give a handshake.
"That's a lovely bake.
That's a lovely bake!"
[laughs]
Bakers, you're halfway through.
[Alison] While choux buns bake…
So I've just started the namelaka.
So I'm just pouring in the cold cream now.
…attention turns to fillings.
[Illiyin] This is my crème pâtissière.
I want the filling to have body.
I've got to make sure
the creams are thick enough.
[Noel] But while most
are focused on flavours…
[Dylan] My banana crème pât,
that's chilling,
so I'm going to get my nougatine going.
…Christiaan…
Oh.
…has other concerns.
-Looks like they're not rising.
-Yeah.
No, they should be, like, puffing now.
They look like macaron.
They're not as puffed
as I want them to be.
You want them to be slightly higher.
And also, they've lost a bit of colour,
so I don't know if I should…
start them again.
[Noel] You all right, Christiaan?
Oh, my choux just went all flat.
-[Noel] You gonna do it again?
-Yeah.
-How long do they take to bake?
-Twenty-five minutes.
Then they need to cool and be filled.
-So it's like…
-So it's tight.
-It is tight, but it is what it is, so…
-You can do it.
-Thank you.
-[Noel] I'll leave you.
I'll try to do them again but I'm not sure
if I'll make it. We'll see.
[birds chirping]
Bakers, you have one hour left.
Time to go.
[Noel] Whilst Christiaan races
to remake his profiteroles…
I added more eggs than I normally do.
That's why I went wrong. I shouldn't have.
-[Alison] …the rest of the bakers…
-Ooh!
…are already out and starting to fill.
[Dylan] This is my caramel sauce.
I'm not using very much
because you have the caramel
on the outside as well.
You don't want a caramel overload.
[Alison] While well-balanced
flavours are important…
White chocolate brings out the coconut.
…managing the moisture
inside the choux is crucial.
When you add this cream,
it'll soften them a bit.
Then when you stack it,
you don't want it flopping all over.
[Noel] The bigger the bun,
the more it must be filled.
-Very big ones. Huge.
-They're very big.
-Great big Afros.
Exactly. They need to be big.
That's in, but I just realised I've got
a few choux buns that are all right.
I'll use those for the bottom layer,
so I can start filling them
and start something.
[Noel] Whilst Christiaan tries to revive
a few of his sunken choux…
Bit stressful, isn't it?
[Alison] …the rest of the bakers have
started on their decorative elements.
[Georgie] So I need to make
my Freddie Mercury now.
[Illiyin] I'm making some isomalt Afros,
like sort of women's silhouettes.
I've got an Afro pick as well,
which will go at the top.
This is my nougatine to make my stand.
Christiaan, do you need a hand?
-Anything I can do?
-Oh, maybe in a bit.
-Don't worry. Carry on.
-Thanks.
-If you need hands, just shout.
-Thank you.
How much time do we have?
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
-[chuckles] I'm so stressed. [exclaims]
-Right.
[Noel] For those
with their profiteroles filled…
-Let's just go.
-…construction can begin.
Sticking it with caramel.
Hopefully that's strong enough.
Oh, steady, Illiyin. Steady.
[Christiaan] I'm doing filling
and building at the same time.
But it's just getting it all in
in the time now.
So messy, and it's stressing me out
'cause I am a perfectionist.
It's like Lego, isn't it?
Yeah, but Lego doesn't burn you.
-[winces] Ow, ow, ow, ow.
-[Gill] Hot, hot, hot, hot.
It should be further,
but I just… [exhales]
That's basically done.
Now it might collapse.
That's my main worry.
[Illiyin] There we go.
Oh, that's a big one. That's juicy.
[Dylan] Christiaan, need a hand?
[Christiaan] Would you be able
to fill them with jam
-and then put in this namelaka?
-[Dylan] Yeah.
[Christiaan] You're an angel,
Dylan. Honestly.
[Georgie] There's one more
going on after this.
Then I need to get
Freddie and everything done.
[dramatic music playing]
-Five minutes left.
-Oh, that's not good.
You know what we could do in five minutes?
We could dance.
[laughs]
I hope it stays up. Is it going?
Oh, don't fall on me.
The same paranoia as at home.
Are my baubles evenly spaced?
[laughs]
[Georgie whispers] He's on.
[Illiyin] Afro there.
-[Dylan] Anything else I can help with?
-[Christiaan] No, thank you.
Bakers, you've got one minute left.
[Georgie] It's on the squonk. Why?
Oh, hello.
Yeah, I think it's a bit messy,
but always is.
So annoying 'cause it goes
on the wonk a little, doesn't it?
That's a bit '70s.
Bakers, your time is up.
Please step away from your profiteroles.
[Dylan] I can't believe
you managed to hustle that out.
That looks amazing. [chuckles]
[Illiyin] That'll collapse. It's gonna go.
I'm not gonna move.
I'm gonna stay here with it.
[gentle classical music playing]
[Alison] The bakers'
1970s profiterole stacks
now face the judgement of Paul and Prue.
-Illiyin, hello.
-Hello.
[gentle classical music playing]
-[Prue] I love the colours.
-Thanks.
The colours look amazing.
Obviously, structurally, it's not sound.
I sat here and it just started going…
-[mimics creaking]
-[Paul] Yeah.
-[Prue] The raspberry and white chocolate?
-Yes.
[Prue] My goodness,
that cream looks wonderful.
I think that's beautiful.
Cream is lovely.
The raspberry is nice and fresh.
[Paul] Mmm, sharp. It is nice and sharp.
And the pastry is nice. It's thin.
It's baked through. Pretty good.
This is the brown butter, caramel,
and then hazelnut and amaretto.
[Prue] Mmm.
I think it is absolutely delicious.
[chuckles] This is so good.
-Thank you.
-Your amaretti, the flavours,
again the nut flavour as well
that comes through, is delicious.
Almost acts like a praline
because you've got the caramel as well.
Part of the problem is,
because the 'roles are so big,
you filled them with a very soft cream,
that's why it's collapsed.
But I like the flavours,
they're excellent.
Thank you so much.
[bright classical music playing]
[Paul] I like the look. Bit of a lean.
It's perfectly stable though.
There is a coconut crème pât.
There's a whole almond in there as well.
I like the coconut,
the white chocolate and nut.
It works beautifully well.
And then the yellow ones
are chocolate crème pât
with a salted caramel centre.
The caramel is lovely.
[Paul] Mmm. There's an indulgence to it.
That works beautifully
with the chocolate outside.
-Overall, your flavours are excellent.
-Thank you.
-Freddie would be proud.
-Aw, yay!
[bright classical music playing]
I like the look of these.
They're probably… The bake feels good.
I think it may need
a little bit more colour.
-Okay.
-[Paul] Overall, they're quite neat.
[Gill] So it's filled with
a chocolate hazelnut crème pâtissière.
[Prue] Mm-hmm. Very hazelnutty.
[Paul] The hazelnut comes through
nicely with the chocolate.
It's not wildly exciting
but it is really very competent.
Simple but effective.
-Bit like myself.
-[Gill and Prue laugh]
-Thank you, Gill.
-Thank you.
[bright classical music playing]
[Paul] Looks great. It does look nice.
Really attractive.
-They're uniform. They look really good.
-Thank you.
So we've got a chocolate choux pastry
with a cocoa craquelin on top.
And then inside
we've got a kirsch and cherry jam
and a kirsch and chocolate namelaka,
and on the outside
we have some, erm, kirsch Chantilly cream.
-[chuckles]
-[Prue] Quite boozy.
It is quite boozy.
It is strong, but you can
get away with it with that.
I tried it with some of the outside cream
and you do need that cream
with the chocolate inside.
I think so, definitely.
Together, it's beautiful.
It screams Black Forest gateau as well.
You've done really well, really well.
Thank you very much.
[bright classical music playing]
[Paul] The nougatine work's fantastic.
You could see this
in a London department store for sale.
Yeah, I'll take that.
I wanna see if we can get into it
'cause it looks--
Oh, wow, you get into it easily as well.
[Dylan] So mine is filled
with a banana crème diplomat,
a little bit of salted caramel
and then they're coated in caramel.
[Prue] Mmm.
I love the salted caramel tone
right at the top as well with the flavour.
The banana comes through beautifully.
The choux is baked very well.
I like the thin caramel 'cause
you can get into it, take what you need.
-All right, cheers.
-Yeah.
Oh, sweet!
I'm sick of giving 'em to you.
-Well done.
-[Dylan] Cheers.
-[Noel] Watch out. It's going.
-[Dylan] It's dying.
[Prue] We did take out its support.
[Paul] We did take out its support,
yeah, but that is, erm…
-[Prue] Beautiful.
-[Paul] That's mighty impressive.
Cool. Wicked.
Well done, Dylan. Thank you.
-Very good.
-That's so cool.
Lovely.
[laughs]
That went better than I thought.
I didn't think I'd get a handshake.
Dylan obviously got another handshake.
I love him so much
but, like, come on, cut us some slack.
He's in another league.
[Gill] He's very good. Annoyingly good.
Bless him. Argh.
[Christiaan] I'm so happy
I decided to go again with the choux buns
because I know I can do a good choux bun.
Obviously, that showed
in the second batch.
I'm really glad I took that chance
and I feel like it paid off.
Rule of thumb in this tent is,
"Don't be the worst."
And, unfortunately, that's where I am.
[Noel] While the bakers could plan
for their profiteroles,
the next challenge
is a gingham-guarded mystery.
[gentle classical music playing]
[all chuckling]
Bakers, for your technical challenge,
this has been set by the it-girl
of the 1970s…
Paul.
[laughter]
Paul, any '70s wisdom
for our lovely bakers?
You'll certainly know this bake,
but remember,
this is all about the textures.
-[Gill] Ooh.
-[bakers gasp]
Now, as always,
this challenge is judged blind.
So, Paul and Prue,
you may now leave the tent.
They're strutting out like a couple
of John Travoltas in Saturday Night Fever.
[Alison laughs]
So, for your technical challenge,
Paul would like you to bake
a banoffee pie.
Oh.
Your banoffee pie should consist
of a buttery shortcrust pastry case
filled with perfectly set caramel
and banana slices.
And the whole thing should be finished off
with a beautifully piped Chantilly cream.
You have two hours and 30 minutes.
On your marks.
Get set.
Bake!
[laughs] Oh, my God. This is ridiculous!
What?
There's no instructions whatsoever.
He's literally just given us the quantity.
[Christiaan] Oh, you're joking.
He's so out of order.
He's so out of order!
[Georgie] "Make the banoffee pie
decorate with cream piped as petals."
-That is it.
-[Christiaan] Wow.
This is… This is cruel.
So, Paul, I'm in two minds
about banoffee pie.
-Really? Why?
-'Cause it's so sweet.
-That's the point.
-[laughs]
I don't think it needs to be that sweet,
but we'll see.
Anyway, it looks beautiful.
Tell me about it.
It's a classic 1970s cake, essentially.
But it's all about the textures.
The shortcrust pastry,
the caramel and the cream.
Now, we haven't actually
given them a recipe.
At all?
No. They've got all the ingredients,
but we haven't given them the method.
They should know how to make a shortcrust.
But if you overdo your water,
it'll end up like rubber.
-You want that crack.
-Yeah. That's good pastry.
[Paul] The second part is the caramel.
If you take your caramel too far,
it goes bitter,
and you won't get the flavour of a caramel
which is what you want.
That's the point of a banoffee pie.
I'm sold now. You've told me
that it's delicious, I'll believe it.
-That's really nice.
-I have to admit, it's delicious.
[Paul] It's a real treat.
That, and going to Anfield in the '70s.
[both laugh]
[gentle classical music playing]
[Illiyin] I'll make
the pastry dough first.
It's a shortcrust pastry.
So I've just got my salt,
butter and sugar in here.
Just gotta make sure
I don't add too much water to it.
[Georgie] This might need
a bit more water.
Probably too much now. Honest to God.
[Christiaan] It's tricky
'cause at the moment it looks dry,
you feel like, "I wanna add more water."
But then you risk it
becoming a bit too tough.
See, I've used the amount of water he said
but it still looks quite crumbly.
It needs more.
You know your way around a banoffee, easy.
-I've never made a banoffee before.
-Stop it. Come on.
-You've made banoffee.
-I've never baked it.
I've been to your house. You made it.
-[laughs]
-It's all you ever serve.
Every dinner party I come to.
-You've never been to Bolton.
-Banoffee again?
[both laugh]
The key is to kind of
not work it too much.
I'm doing it by hand.
Otherwise it'll go quite tough.
Yeah, that's it.
Hopefully it's nice and short.
I'm gonna roll it.
I think it'll need to be quite thin
because this is the quantity
they've given us for that size tin.
[Gill] Well, pastry's going in the tin.
You want it to be thin
but you want it to hold.
[Dylan] I like its look.
It's crumbling on the edges.
How're you doing?
You must be feeling good. Handshake.
-Handshake, Dylan.
-It's throwing me off more than I thought.
-[Alison] Why?
-[Dylan] I've never made this before.
Looks like a nice pastry.
Okay, you haven't got a method,
but who needs it when you're Dylan?
It's going in with the baking beans.
I'm gonna give it 15 minutes like that
and see how we're doing.
I honestly have no clue
how long to bake this for.
I think it takes about half an hour.
I'm not too sure.
Are we at the stage now
where we're so competitive?
Could you ask anybody?
-No one would say.
-It's one of those situations?
-You can't ask. They'd be like…
-Before you were friends.
-Now we're enemies.
-[both laugh]
[Christiaan] So now
I'm starting the caramel.
[sighs] It's not always
my strong point, I guess.
I said before I came in,
"Don't let it be caramel again."
[Illiyin] I'm melting my sugar.
I don't want it to catch.
[Christiaan] You wanna take it far
but not too far,
'cause in an instant it just goes burnt.
See the sweat down my forehead?
-Are you really hot?
-I have a vest on under there.
-What is this? Velvet?
-Velvet, yeah.
Velvet! Who wears velvet
on the hottest day of the year?
-I know, mate.
-[laughing] What are you…
-It's a bad idea.
-[laughing]
[birds chirping]
Bakers! You are halfway through.
[Gill] That's been 15 minutes.
[Georgie] I'm gonna get my pastry out,
take the beans off
and I'll put it back in to bake.
[Christiaan] It doesn't get a colour.
It's just pale.
Beans out, back in it goes.
-[Georgie] It's going in.
-You've made a banoffee.
I don't like banoffee.
I don't like bananas.
-What? Don't like bananas?
-The texture of them. They're slimy.
Ever have a straight banana?
Mmm, no. I've had one that's long
and straight and then curved at the end.
Pew! Go away!
I'm so gullible, Noel.
I'll just answer to anything,
so don't do it to me.
Right. So the sugar's melted nicely.
We're gonna get the cream in
and then get it up to temperature.
[Georgie] If you go too far,
you can get it too chewy like a toffee.
Take it off too soon,
it'll be like a pouring sauce.
I just took it to a light caramel,
not too dark.
This isn't the kind of thing
you want dark caramel for.
[breathes deeply]
This always seems to take forever.
See, it's going thick there.
Yeah. [sighs] Fingers crossed.
[Christiaan] It's set nicely on the sides.
That's good.
[quirky music playing]
I'm just gonna add a little bit
of happiness in here.
[chuckles]
[exclaims]
[Illiyin screams]
[gasps]
[gasps] Has… She fell off?
[Alison] Don't come over here. Leave me!
[laughs] Leave me in my shame.
[laughter]
[Alison laughing]
Oh, Alison.
The best thing I've ever seen, ever.
[both laughing]
I missed my footing.
[laughing]
Wow.
-[Alison] This is what I meant to do.
-[Noel] Don't do it again.
[laughs]
What did I do wrong? What did I do?
I wouldn't do it again.
No, I went to… Oh, forget it.
[laughs] I'll do it tomorrow.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
[Georgie] The pastry's ready,
to be honest.
It's been in there 45 minutes.
I can't procrastinate any longer.
[Illiyin] That looks quite good.
It'd be gutting to have a soggy bottom.
Part of me wants
to bake this a bit longer.
Split there, but there's nothing
I can do about that now.
Yeah, it's just cooling times now.
So let's get on to the cream.
[Gill] My extensive instructions says,
for the Chantilly cream
I whip up some double cream,
vanilla extract and icing sugar.
[Christiaan] There we go, Chantilly cream.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes left.
[Georgie] I'll get my caramel in.
I haven't got enough time.
[Illiyin] It's thinner
than I would have thought
but it'll now sit in the case
and hopefully just set.
[Gill] I had a crack at the bottom
which I thought I'd bung, but we'll see.
[Georgie] I dunno what I'm doing.
My caramel might not set.
I would just eat it like that.
I would not mind.
[Gill] No, bananas.
The good news is, so far,
the banana is not sinking.
[Dylan] Scales of banana
is what I'm doing.
[Christiaan] I love bananas.
I'm just gonna do like a little circle.
[Georgie] Oh…
[exhales]
[Christiaan] Let's get on to the cream.
So we're gonna just do
little petals, basically.
[Gill] I think this what they want.
Could be horrifically wrong.
[Illiyin] It's like a flower.
[Dylan] I'm not piping a flower.
I don't know how. I'll just do this.
They'll want it neat.
I like piping with cream. Soothing.
[Christiaan] Like therapy.
[Illiyin] This cream is splitting
in the bag, so it's not the best flower.
Bakers, you got one minute left!
[whispers] I'll just cover
the whole thing with chocolate.
[Georgie sighs] Just have to hope
and pray it's right.
[Illiyin] Technicals, technicals.
They're a bugger, aren't they?
[Christiaan] I mean, it's not bad,
but not perfect.
Bakers, your time is up.
[exhales]
[Noel] Please bring your banoffee pies
down to the gingham table
and place them behind your photographs.
-[Georgie] They all look really good.
-It looks so '70s, it is unreal.
[gentle classical music playing]
[Noel] It's judgement time
for the bakers' banoffee pies.
Let's welcome back our disco divas.
It's Paul and Prue, everyone.
[all cheering and clapping]
[Alison] Paul and Prue
are looking for crisp, short pastry
filled with perfectly set caramel,
topped with bananas
and delicately piped Chantilly cream.
Okay, start with this one.
I quite like this.
[Prue] It's beautiful, isn't it?
The top's lovely.
-[knife clinks]
-Nice and crisp.
[Paul] The caramel is not quite there.
Needed a little cooking out more.
-That pastry is really crispy.
-[Prue] Mm. Lovely.
[Paul] The caramel is nearly there.
-But the overall flavour is lovely.
-[Prue] Very good.
[Paul] Okay, moving on to number two.
Interesting pipe work.
It's all over the place,
but it's a nice decoration.
Bit of a soggy bottom there.
Yeah. Not quite cooked.
[Paul] Pastry's bit tough as well.
-It's been worked a bit too much.
-[Prue] Yeah.
-Caramel's perfect.
-[Paul] It is.
[Prue] Okay.
[Paul] This looks like
a classic 1970s banoffee.
[Prue] Doesn't it?
-Sounds good.
-[knife clinks]
[Paul] It's a bit tough again.
-[Prue] Pastry's a bit hard.
-[Paul] It's been overworked.
The whole thing is a little clumsy
but tastes delicious.
The caramel's perfect.
[Paul] Right, erm, that pastry
looks a bit sad, doesn't it?
[Prue] Nice and neat.
[Paul] It's quite dark, that caramel.
-[Prue] But it's the right texture.
-[Paul] Mmm.
Weirdly, the pastry's undermixed,
because it literally crumbles
like an apple crumble,
and that caramel is treacly.
It's gone too far.
Hmm, okay.
I like this.
-[Prue] That's the classic petal.
-[Paul] Yeah.
[knife clinks]
-That was a good sign.
-That sounded right.
[Paul] Held well as well.
[Prue] Mm-hmm.
-Very crumbly pastry. Mm.
-[Paul] Mm.
No, it's lovely.
[Paul] Nice flavour on the caramel.
It's very good. Okay.
[Noel] The banoffee pies will now
be ranked from last to first place.
Okay, in fifth spot, we have this one.
Whose is this?
Gill, er, you messed up with the caramel
and your pastry was underworked.
Okay.
[Prue] And then in fourth spot,
we've got this one. Illiyin.
It's a bit clumsy,
and the pastry is a bit overworked.
Yeah.
In third spot, we have this one.
-Dylan, the pastry is a little bit tough.
-Yeah.
And then, we have in second place…
this one.
Christiaan, this was really delicious.
The caramel needed
to be taken a little bit further.
Otherwise, it was lovely
and the pastry was excellent.
In first place, we have this one.
Georgie, well done.
Your pastry is nearly perfect.
-Well done.
-Thanks.
-Well done, babes. Well done.
-Aw.
Yay!
I'm really happy.
I didn't realise
how much I wanted to be first today
until it happened.
[Christiaan] It's my fourth or fifth time
coming second in technical.
Always the bridesmaid, never the bride.
If there were 12 of us,
fourth would be fine. [chuckling]
But when there are five,
fourth is a bit pants.
[Gill] I'm bottom of the pile.
Don't think my signature
set the world alight
and last in technical,
so, as per usual, it's all to do
on showstopper day again.
[mellow classical music playing]
-Good luck, Illiyin.
-[sighs] Good luck, darl.
Coming into the showstopper, we have
Dylan, Georgie and Christiaan doing well.
But I do think Gill and Illiyin
are in a bit of trouble.
Illiyin, obviously, had the issue
with the profiteroles,
and fourth in the technical automatically
puts her in a precarious position today.
[Prue] Gill's profiteroles weren't bad.
-[Alison] Yeah.
-It was just a little bit bland.
It needed more pop to it.
And when it came to the technical,
she was last.
You look at Dylan,
when I first walked in
and saw everybody's profiteroles,
-Dylan's looked like a professional bake.
-[Alison] Yeah.
Christiaan did well on the signature,
and he was second
in the technical as well.
He's one to watch this week.
And I would put Georgie in there as well.
[Prue] I always think that Georgie's
strength is that she is a classic baker,
but whereas Christiaan
will take much more risks.
At the moment, we have Georgie, Christiaan
and Dylan in line for Star Baker.
Yeah.
And I think we have Illiyin
and Gill down at the bottom.
-Yeah.
-Scrapping it out to stay.
-Oh, my gosh, this is so exciting.
-So tense.
[tense music playing]
Hello, bakers. Welcome back to the tent.
It's time for your
1970s showstopper challenge.
So for this challenge,
the judges would like you to bake
a beautifully decorated gateau
with at least two tiers.
[Noel] The judges would love you
to create a showstopper
with delicious sponges,
feather-light fillings
and intricately piped decoration.
You've got four hours
for this showstopper.
-On your marks.
-Get set.
Bake.
[tense classical music playing]
-Getting to the final is on the mind.
-[exhales]
Yeah, it's… it's scary.
Oh, I'm at the bottom of the pile,
so, yeah, a big bake today.
For me, a gateau is all about softness.
A nice soft sponge, lots of cream.
Almost trifle-like,
but without being a trifle.
If the bakers are after
a really light gateau,
they should go for a genoise.
A genoise sponge is made
by whipping the eggs
to incorporate as much air as I can.
That's the only thing it relies on
for the rising in the oven.
This isn't my favourite cake to make
as it can be very temperamental.
The piped decoration is the most
difficult we've asked them to do
because it takes ages
to do really good piping.
We want to see lots of little loops
and rosettes and all that stuff.
What's the difference
between cake and gateau?
It's the cream.
-[Alison] In between the cake?
-Yep.
I did not know.
That means it might deteriorate quicker.
It could collapse.
[Alison] Ah.
[Paul] Making a tiered cake
with fresh cream,
you need to keep that quite central
using dowels and boards.
If you go slightly to the side
or get that wrong,
the whole thing could come tumbling down.
Believe me, after all that work,
that will be painful.
-Hello, Illiyin.
-[Illiyin] Hello.
Illiyin, tell us all about
your 1970s gateau.
So I am making a two-tiered
peach melba vintage-style gateau.
Oh, wow. Okay.
[Alison] Eight layers
of delicate genoise sponge
will be sandwiched
with peach Chantilly cream,
a peach and champagne compôte
and a raspberry compôte,
all held together
with a white chocolate whipped ganache.
Are you using dowels to--
-[Illiyin] Yes.
-You are?
Yeah, because of the genoise
and the lightness of it, and the cream,
-without them, it was collapsing.
-Concertina.
That's why I chose
white chocolate ganache for the outside.
Ganache is so stable.
Once it's on the outside, it won't budge.
-[Paul] Acts as a sealant.
-Exactly.
Okay, well, we'll be expecting
the moon then, won't we?
-[Paul] Thank you, Illiyin.
-Thank you.
-[Noel] Good luck.
There we go. Pale and fluffy.
[Christiaan] This one's a bit tricky
because there's a lot of flour to fold in,
so you want to be careful
'cause you might knock out
some air otherwise
and it might just collapse in the oven.
[Noel] Pursuing ever more exciting
flavours, Christiaan's giving his a twist.
[Christiaan] I'm adding in the hazelnuts
now as well and fold them in.
I'm doing a cake inspired by a cake
that my grandma would bring around.
And we call it snow star or sneeuwster.
It's a proper '70s staple
in, like, the Dutch, erm, tradition.
[Noel] Christiaan's
hazelnut-crowned genoise
will be sandwiched
with a boozy advocaat curd
and coated in a psychedelic buttercream.
So I've got brown, pink,
yellow and orange buttercream.
-Like proper '70s colours.
-Like your shirt.
A little bit like my shirt. [chuckles]
If you pull this off,
this sounds like a proper showstopper.
It's like a risk, innit?
It could go really great or…
We love that you take risks.
-[laughs]
-Good luck, Christiaan.
-Thank you, Christiaan.
-Thank you.
[Gill] Right. I've not got time
to mess about today.
[Alison] For the bakers to have
enough time to decorate their gateaux…
[Dylan] It's gonna look very '70s-ish.
Lots of, like, piping and, you know,
stuff I don't normally do.
…they need to get their sponges baked
and cooled as quickly as possible.
[Illiyin] I've got to bake eight sponges.
You can't do it in less than two batches.
But the good thing about a genoise
is that it does bake quite quickly.
I'm starting with 25 minutes at 180.
Right, the next one now.
We've got two monster sponges to go.
It had to be at least ten inches.
So, there's some monster cakes happening.
-Hello, Gill.
-Hello there.
Right, Gill, 1970s gateau,
what are you doing?
-Has to be a Black Forest.
-Course you are.
-[Noel] Gotta be a Black Forest.
-Classic.
Is this something
you enjoy making and eating?
I enjoy eating. I used to go
to dance classes on a Saturday morning.
My dad used to be in charge of lunches
so we'd have Geoff's café lunches.
And a treat was for him to go and get
some Black Forest gateau for our pudding.
[Alison] Constructed
from three tiers of cherry
and mascarpone-filled black cocoa sponges,
Gill's tribute to her treasured
Saturday lunchtime treat
will also feature
a buttercream shagpile rug.
Well, we've got a Black Forest gateau
coming out of a shagpile carpet.
I mean, it is crazy.
But it is very '70s.
The colours are going to be hideous,
but they sound great.
It's a gawping cake.
It'll look pretty hideous
but it'll taste great, is that right?
That's the plan.
[Noel] Gill isn't the only baker
navigating the Black Forest
with the aid of soft furnishings.
Erm, so it's two tiers
and it's gonna be like a vintage design.
Like my aunty's bathroom.
She used to have a bathroom
with carpets and curtains in it.
I loved it, but, like,
thinking back now, it's like, hmm.
[Noel] Georgie's Black Forest tribute
to her aunty's bathroom
will be constructed
from layers of chocolate sponge,
mascarpone cream and cherry jam.
[Georgie] Oh, they feel light,
so I need to get these new ones
in now though.
They're done.
Just gotta let them cool
in the tins for a while.
Get the next lots done.
Four down. Four to go. [laughs]
[Alison] With their second batch
of sponges in the oven…
So these are my tiers two and three,
or one and two, however you look at it.
These are smaller,
so I'm gonna put these in for 20 minutes.
[Alison] …focus turns to fillings.
I got a lot of jam to make
'cause they're big tiers.
So, yeah, there's a lot
of cherries going on here.
[Illiyin] I'm just mushing down my peaches
and I'll let them cook
for another ten minutes.
Erm, and then start testing for flavour,
seeing if it's what I want it to be.
[Christiaan] I'm starting to combine
ingredients for the advocaat.
It's meant to be, like, really creamy
but quite light hopefully still.
People call it, like, a Dutch eggnog.
[Noel] While Christiaan attempts
to capture winter warming flavours,
Dylan's dicing
with a controversial summer combo.
So mine is a… mint choc chip flavour.
How's the mint choc chip?
So are they chocolate sponge
with, erm, toothpaste on it?
-How are you doing it?
-Yeah, basically.
[Alison] Dylan's mammoth
mint chocolate gateau
will see four tiers of chocolate sponge
filled and coated
with a peppermint buttercream.
But balancing these two tricky flavours
isn't his only goal.
I'm worried about decoration.
I'm bad at decorating cakes.
I think some of your bakes
have been pretty good for decoration.
You know,
you don't have too much pressure today.
-You do.
-Yeah.
-Oh, you do.
[tense music playing]
[Georgie] Done.
[Noel] As the final sponges come out…
Oh, thank God that's over.
Right.
…the bakers can check
for signs of sinking.
It's all right. Thankfully.
[Christiaan] They came out all right.
And around the outside,
it's really nice and flat.
[Noel] If the sponges aren't level,
they won't stack evenly.
I have to be careful
trying to get three layers out of that.
I can't mess up when I'm cutting it.
[Illiyin] So you see that fold there?
Sometimes it's when it rises
and if there's a gap in the tins,
you might get it.
It's not anything worth
stressing myself about.
It's the benefit of covering the sides.
You can hide a magnitude of sins.
[tense classical music playing]
Halfway through, bakers.
You are halfway through.
Right, I just need to get it done.
[Alison] With their cakes baked…
Sponge, sponge, it's like practice pads.
-Yeah.
-[drumming] Like Phil Collins' house.
[Alison] …and their fillings
and frostings waiting in the wings…
That's about two kilos
of buttercream almost.
…construction can finally commence.
[Georgie] I've got cherry compôte,
then the Chantilly
and then we've got some Amarena cherries.
All the cherries
and chocolate in the world.
Right, for the next one now.
[Illiyin] So I've just put the cream in,
and then my peaches.
And now I'm adding the raspberry.
Is that lemon?
[Christiaan] It's the advocaat.
It's like an alcoholic curd.
[whistles]
[Dylan] I need to work quickly.
If I don't have half an hour to decorate,
it's a bit tight.
-[Noel] But with a bake on this scale…
-That looks good.
…one mis-stacked sponge
could spell disaster.
[Dylan] The small one's not great.
I just built it when it was a bit too warm
so it's slanted at a bit of an angle.
Yeah, it doesn't look great.
[Illiyin] So these dowels will keep
the whole thing steady,
so it stops any kind of structural,
hopefully, slipping and sliding.
We've had that already this week,
haven't we?
[Noel] What'll you do now?
-Decorate, decorate.
-Decorate. Pipe?
-Pipe work?
-Some pipe work.
-You're good at piping, aren't ya?
-I like piping.
I tried to talk to you when you're piping,
it's like you're not there. You're like…
That's 23 years of marriage, Noel.
I can just block it out.
[both laughing]
-Bakers, you have one hour left.
-[utensils clattering]
-All right. Easy.
-Sorry, guys.
Dylan's fallen in his cutlery drawer.
The bottom cake is covered in ganache.
This will now go in the fridge
and I can put
the final coat on the top cake.
[Alison] If the bakers want to transport
their gateau back to the '70s…
-Gonna colour up some buttercream.
-…they can't be cautious with colour.
Pinks and browns.
[Christiaan] I'm making pink,
yellow, brown and orange.
A lot going on but, yeah, it'll be nice.
[Georgie] Full blown '70s this week.
Do you know where he got
his inspiration from?
-Yeah?
-My outfit.
[Noel laughs]
He was cleaning his teeth
when he had this idea.
[Christiaan] I'm just gonna start
making my buttercream collar.
So I've got a template,
and I'm just gonna pipe on top of that.
[Georgie] I love these vintage cakes.
They're just so effective.
Oh.
I've split it. I've just split my ganache.
I've got no decoration
around the outside of my cake.
How long do we have left?
Bakers, you've got half an hour left.
I desperately need
to get the other cake coated.
And I've got nothing to coat it with.
So I've just got to make some buttercream
and hopefully it'll be fine.
[Georgie] On the big cake now.
[Dylan] Last one now.
I'm worried it'll be tight for decoration.
It's a shame.
I really wanted to do well on that.
I think I can still do it.
[Christiaan] I'm gonna wrap my collar
around the cake.
[Illiyin] Just a buttercream
on the outside of this cake.
It wasn't what I wanted,
but it is what it's going to be.
It's annoying 'cause it's lopsided.
[Gill] We've got
some shagpile-effect icing.
[Georgie] I can't pipe the bottom
until I've moved it.
The cake Olympics. Yeah! [chuckles]
[tense music playing]
[Dylan] I need to get this onto this.
[Illiyin] It's so wonky.
I can see what it's trying to do.
It's trying to, like, slant.
Why is it doing that?
[Christiaan] I mean,
it looks massively messy.
But the other one is not setting yet,
so that's really annoying but…
[Georgie] I need to get this on now.
Make sure it's central
'cause I never get it damn central.
[Dylan] Let's get on. How much time left?
You have ten minutes left.
[Dylan] It's not as much time as I'd like,
but I can do it.
[exhales]
Annoying that I'm gonna
have to start piping in the fridge.
[Christiaan] It's not set.
Ice spray.
Just a bit more.
Oh, my hand is cramping up as well.
[Georgie] Erm, so I've gotta just
do these connection pieces now.
And then, erm, just some little lines.
[Christiaan] I'm not happy with it.
[Illiyin] I don't know why it's like that.
I've got the dowels,
I've got heavy set cream.
Got no idea why it's doing this.
We're nearly there.
[tense music playing]
Okay, bakers, your time is up.
Please step away from your gateaux.
[snickers] I have to laugh,
'cause I'll cry.
[Georgie] Dylan, I'm so proud of you.
-I'm so proud of your piping work.
-[Dylan] Thanks.
What I'll do is
I'm gonna present it like that.
[chuckles] 'Cause that side
looks a little bit straighter.
[Noel] It's judgement time,
and the bakers are retrieving their cakes…
[Georgie grunts]
…ready for Paul and Prue.
[Illiyin] Oh, God.
That's completely fallen.
[sighs]
[Noel] Oh, my God, no.
-Oh, my God.
-[chuckles nervously]
-Want a bigger plate?
-[Gill] Are you okay?
Hold your nerve, my love.
Everything else looks beautiful.
You can really see
what it looked like before that.
[Georgie] Just hold your nerve.
Queen face.
Okay?
[Alison] Five '70s-style gateaux
made in just four hours.
[tense classical music playing]
[Prue] I must say it's very impressive,
and it's extremely '70s.
-[Dylan] Thank you.
-I love that colour.
I'm dreading this in a way.
I'm just concerned about the peppermint.
-Let's have a look.
-[Prue] Let's have a look.
So it has a peppermint buttercream
with a chocolate sponge.
[Prue] The peppermint
definitely dominates.
Yeah.
I like it but it is very strong.
And it's stronger than the chocolate.
Yeah, I would like to have seen
a little more towards the chocolate side.
Your chocolate cake is beautifully smooth
and it's got such an elegant flavour.
-Yeah.
-I do like it. Your textures are spot on.
It's just the dominance is the peppermint.
But it's a great-looking cake.
You've ticked all the boxes, well done.
[dramatic classical music playing]
-[Paul] Hideous.
-[Prue] Beautifully done.
-It's great. That's the point.
-[Georgie exhales]
-It's 1970s and you've got it to a T.
-Yeah.
Nice little bit of piping work as well.
You've done wraps, coils, and rolls.
The shells.
[Prue] It's a demonstration
of your piping skills.
So let's have a look.
[Georgie] So mine
is a Black Forest gateau,
erm, which in the layers
it is chocolate genoise
soaked in kirsch
with a morello cherry reduction on that
and then a buttercream on the outside.
There's a bit of the cherry syrup in that
and a bit of almond extract for flavour.
Mmm. The morello cherries,
did you soak them in some booze as well?
No, but there's kirsch
soaked into the sponge.
-[laughs]
-[Paul] Erm, lovely.
Okay. [laughs]
-Great flavour. Lovely soft sponge there.
-Beautiful sponge.
The mascarpone and cream works well
'cause it lightens it up.
-It's a trifle, basically.
-[Georgie] Yeah.
But it tastes delicious.
-Very boozy.
-It is.
A whole bottle of kirsch went into that.
-You're joking.
-[Georgie] No.
-[laughter]
-No, I can taste it.
I'll be walking home then.
[all laughing]
[dramatic classical music playing]
I like the design of it.
It is very '70s for sure.
I think your pipework is, it's okay.
It is flawed, but I like the colours.
That's the most gregarious colour
we've ever had in the tent.
[laughs]
It's a hazelnut and lemon genoise sponge
with a lemon and hazelnut
liqueur soaking syrup.
Then we've got a mascarpone
Chantilly cream and an advocaat filling.
That's one boozy…
-[Prue] Mmm.
-That's a…
The filling is almost too boozy
even for me.
It's too boozy. That doesn't work.
-The flavour's too strong.
-Right.
I rely on you sometimes
to test us for flavours.
-[laughs]
-You're slightly off the mark on this one.
Okay, okay.
The glory of a genoise sponge
is that it's light and soft.
But if you absolutely stuff it
full of hazelnuts
it becomes something…
-Defeats the object.
-You don't have that same texture.
-Your flavours are slightly off.
-[Christiaan] Okay.
-[judges] Thank you.
-Thank you very much. Thank you.
[tense music playing]
Illiyin, would you bring up
your showstopper?
[sniffling]
I'm having a bit of a wobbly week.
[laughs] I can see that.
Erm, it just collapsed in the fridge.
[Paul] Okay. Let's have a look.
[Illiyin] It's filled
with a peach Chantilly,
a champagne and peach compôte,
a raspberry compôte,
and then white ganache
on the outside of the bottom.
I love those flavours and it looks as if
it was going to be lovely. [laughs]
It tastes like heaven.
And the acidity of the peach is perfect.
That's a celebration of the tinned peach.
It's delicious.
No, it works and the, erm,
the champagne as well.
Little bit of a lift.
But that sponge is so dense.
But the flavour of the sponge
is excellent.
Good colour combination as well.
Very '70s.
Erm, it's a shame
what's happened structurally.
It's a real shame,
and I'm sorry to present that
'cause it's not
what I would want to have done.
Tastes great though.
-Thanks.
-[Prue] Really good.
[dramatic classical music playing]
[Prue] The whole thing
is really a showstopper.
You wouldn't walk past that cake
and not stop and look at it, would you?
No. I even like the shagpile carpet.
[laughs]
Let's have a look, shall we?
[Gill] So it's a dark chocolate sponge,
a kirsch and cherry buttercream
filled with amaretto cherries
and the, erm, mascarpone cream.
[Prue chuckles] Very chocolatey,
I'm glad to say.
That's delicious. Really nice.
-The texture's quite open and light.
-[Gill] Yeah.
I tell you what's a stroke of genius
is those cherries.
They're an explosion of flavour.
Took me back to the '70s, that did.
[Gill laughs]
-Thank you.
-Mission accomplished.
-[Prue] Well done, Gill.
-Thank you.
I did it as well as I could do it.
Am I still at risk? Very probably.
I think it's gonna come down
to the smallest of margins again.
Right now
I feel really disappointed in myself.
Erm… yeah.
I don't even know how I feel,
to be honest.
I was more worried about the look,
I should've been worried about the taste.
[laughs]
The feedback is confusing to take
because it was like,
"Wow, you made a really good cake,
but you can't taste it."
Which is fair enough.
I'm over the moon with that.
Getting to the semi-finals
would mean everything. I'd rejoice.
I'd be rolling round the fields.
[munching]
[sheep bleats]
Well, that was a dramatic showstopper.
It was. It was a bit sad
about Illiyin's cake.
Is there any saving Illiyin?
Yeah, listen, we've had people
who've messed up a bake in the past
and have thrown things in bins.
-Illiyin didn't throw it away.
-[Alison] Yeah.
She brought it up,
which is what you should do.
Such a shame though, 'cause, Prue,
her flavours are bang on most of the time.
If this was a trifle competition,
she'd have won it.
-Really?
-[Paul] Yeah.
But I was a bit worried
about the sponge quality.
Does worrying about sponge quality
keep you up at night?
-All the time.
-[laughs]
Gill really pulled it out.
-I mean, she absolutely…
-Yeah.
It was a neat cake.
Look over the three challenges,
don't forget Gill was bottom in technical.
[Alison] Could Christiaan
be in trouble today?
-He was a bit of a letdown, if I'm honest.
-Shame. It looked so good.
It was a pity because
I didn't realise there was half a tonne
of chopped hazelnuts in his sponge.
[Paul] And three litres of alcohol.
-[both laughing]
-It was just so potent.
-It wasn't nice to eat.
-Was it not?
That's the first time
I can say that about his food.
And the peppermint cowboy?
The problem was, there wasn't enough choc
in the mint choc chip.
If you tasted the chocolate cake by itself
it was perfect.
[Paul] Georgie's Black Forest gateau
was particularly good.
You know, I thought I'd never say this,
but it was too boozy.
I wouldn't like more than a teacup of it.
Georgie's had a good week, right?
[Prue] Must be in line for Star Baker.
I would say Dylan and Georgie
in line for Star Baker.
[Prue] Yeah.
And Christiaan, Gill or Illiyin
to go home.
Well done, bakers,
we got through 1970s Week.
Now I've got the great job of announcing
this week's Star Baker.
And Star Baker this week is…
Georgie.
[Christiaan] Georgie.
-[all cheering]
-Thank you.
Thank you.
Unfortunately,
I've got the job of announcing
which baker's gonna be
leaving the tent today.
So here we go.
The baker leaving the tent today is…
Illiyin.
Oh, darling.
It's okay.
[Georgie] Love you.
-It's all right.
-Love you.
It's a funny thing. I feel like
I can drop my shoulders a little bit
and be like, "At least you don't
have to go and practise patisserie."
[sniffles]
Even all these feelings of sadness,
underneath all of that is, I think,
an immense sense of pride.
And I'm glad to have that.
[Prue] Honestly, you're a very good baker
and you're a wonderful woman,
and you should be very proud.
This is an exceptional competition
with exceptional bakers,
and to have been part of it,
that's quite special.
But, yeah, over and out, Bake Off.
It's done. [chuckles]
-[Prue] And you pulled yourself up.
-I know.
Pulled off the great escape once again.
How am I a semi-finalist in Bake Off?
Semi-finals, baby. Like… [laughs]
That's insane.
It's really good. I mean,
I didn't think I'd make it this far.
My prediction is that next week
is gonna be very tense.
I think it will be everyone
pulling out really good recipes.
Oh, God. That was mad.
-Thank you.
-[Noel] You beat him.
[Georgie] No, he's had two…
Have you had three?
-No, two.
-[Georgie giggles]
[laughs]
I'm… To have it twice is… I'm…
[exhales] I'm blown away.
'Cause once was enough for me,
but we're at the final hurdle.
There's literally two left.
I'm gonna be practising
morning, noon and night.
Yeah, I'm raring to go now.
[closing theme music playing]